---
title: Thoughts on Status Pages
layout: "post"
permalink: status-pages
category: computers
tags: [production]
---

There are a couple of major reasons why you want a status page:
- inspire confidence in your product (look at how little downtime we've had!)
- communicate emergencies effectively ("we're currently experiencing an elevated error rate for our API")
- specify what kind of errors you've had.

There are a few requirements you want your status page to have:
- up when the rest of your infrastructure might be down
- resilient to failure
- accurate

I feel like I've seen two major schools of thought about status pages.

## The minimal page

This is one static page, automatically generated by a fairly bulletproof cron job, that gets thrown up onto S3 or something similar. There are no moving parts, and very little can go wrong here.

## The full-featured page

Customers use many different features of a product, so it doesn't always make sense to report downtime as a simple boolean. This status page is a little more full-featured -- given your login and the services you use, it tells you what your downtime may have looked like. For example, if a portion of the API you never use is down, you didn't really see any API downtime. This is the version of the status page that leans heavily towards individualized accuracy.

This is the slightly more product-friendly version, but now you have an entire application that's running your status page. Your status page can go down.

I'd argue that these are two entirely disjoint products -- one of them is a "proper" status page, fulfilling all the needs of a basic status page. It is simple. It can't go down. It will not have security vulnerabilities!

The other is more akin to a dashboard; perhaps something you show users on login.